# Data Analytics Portfolio by Yi Han 
This portfolio contains various projects I have worked on involving data analytics and machine learning.

## Stand-alone projects

**[Spotify Insights and Recommendations Generator](https://github.com/Yihan2407/Spotify-Insights-and-Recommendations)**

After discovering [Spotipy](https://spotipy.readthedocs.io/en/2.22.1/), a well-documented Python library for the Spotify Web API, I knew I had to tinker around with it. One area of focus I wanted to learn more about at the time was recommender systems, and so I delved right in. I learnt that Spotify has data on tracks such as acousticness, danceability, instrumentalness and speechiness, which can be used to generate recommendations based on past listening history. Here, I first generated insights using my top songs of 2022, a playlist that is automatically generated by Spotify annually, such as visualizing the data of my top genres and artists. Next, I created a recommender system using cosine similarity, which measures the similarity between two vectors. By inputting a user's playlist and another target playlist, music recommendations can be generated from the target playlist based on cosine similarity matching the initial playlist.


## Kaggle kernels

**[Credit Card Default Classification](https://github.com/Yihan2407/credit-default-analytics)**

Predictive analytics in finance is extremely important as it allows for the prediction of risk in lending (i.e. credit default rates) by using the existing data of clients to identify prominent trends, and thereafter make predictions that generate valuable insights. Given a dataset of 30,000 clients, we attempt to create several binary classifiers using R that would predict whether clients would default on their payment next month, using various factors such as demographic data, credit data and history of payment. More information can be found on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/uciml/default-of-credit-card-clients-dataset). A range of machine learning alogrithms have been implemented, including Logistic Regression, K-nearest Neighbors, Support Vector Machines, Random Forests, Neural Network and XGBoost. We have also applied the Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique to address imbalances in the dataset and improve accuracy of predictions.
